 Welcome back aliens my name is Devon Reddy and in this video we're going to talk about core Java. In this particular course which is a lengthy video you're going to learn everything from the basics of core Java to the end of core Java. Now this is not the first time I'm uploading the video on Java. If you can see from last few years you will find multiple Java playlist and multiple Java full-fledged video. But we all know right the quality of videos are going up every day plus the number of features being added to a language is going up and that's the reason I'm going to re-record the entire course. Now this is a full-fledged course and that's why it's so lengthy but you cannot finish the entire course in one day even if it says to 12 hours or 13 hours it will take time. Now let's talk about Java. Now why Java is so famous? Now if you see the programming index the top 5 programming language you will always find Java there maybe at the first position or at the fourth position you will find Java. Why Java is so famous is because Java has multiple features which helps it to be used in the enterprise market. I mean not just enterprise market it can be used for mobile development web development and of course enterprise application. And most of the big companies if you go there they are using Java as their preferred language. Now in Java we have a technology called JVM and it's not just Java we have multiple languages running on JVM. So even if you are working on some other languages let's say Kotlin, Scala, Groovy, ultimately you're working on Java technology and that's why if you learn Java it is much easier for you to jump to different languages and I've also observed irrespective of which interior you're going for. It can be for development or testing and that doesn't matter which language you're working on there maybe Python, C sharp, C++ they might ask you Java questions because most of the interview questions are based on Java because they feel that if you know Java that means you know other languages as well or you can learn other languages easily. As for my experience or did I forgot to introduce myself my name is 7 ready I'm a corporate trainer, software developer and currently focusing more on blockchain but Java is my first love so I'm working on Java from last 12 years. I've made multiple courses on Java on YouTube and different platforms and yeah I can teach Java any day any time. Yeah, sometimes I have to watch my own videos today wise the concept but the thing is I love Java and with this experience I'm making the entire course. I was talking about my experience right in fact I have learned multiple languages in this all 12 years maybe have worked on 12 different languages you can name it maybe C++, C Python, Java, JavaScript, Go language. So I love most of the languages some languages I learned just for the projects but then when I was learning those languages I was I was feeling hate it's it's so easy it's because I have learned Java yes people say Java is difficult yes to start with it is difficult maybe if you want to learn Java is your first language it kind of difficult because if you're coming from other language let's say Python or JavaScript and if you want to print one statement you can actually see that in one line that's not the case with Java right you have to write five lines of code but yes once you make a big application the number of lines will remain almost same okay so Java is difficult yes just to start with but the thing is Java is one of the most readable language what I mean by that is if you are looking at someone else code you can read the Java code line by line that's not true with other languages okay so Java is great in that terms Java is maintainable and that maybe that's why they most of the industries are preferring to use Java. Now Java has multiple features we'll talk about those features later but just to name them we got what I which is right once run anywhere it supports multiple multi threads it has a collection API concept you can handle the exceptions and we are going to learn everything in this particular course. Now just to go for the history of Java Java was made in 1995 by Sun Microsystem and it was led by the team of James Gosling later on Oracle botsons and now the trademark of Java belongs to Oracle yes in between Oracle did some messed up things with Java but yeah they are back on track and the beauty is Java is getting update in every six months not the major updates but they are working hard to make Java as a most powerful language so I hope you are excited for the entire course we are going to start from the basic as I mentioned and you will learn a lot of different stuff but as I mentioned it's not about completing the entire course in one day you can use a timeline to jump between these sections and also with this we also have a code there so in the description you will find the link GitHub link where you can access all the codes and maybe it will be helpful for you to write this code so let's start the journey.